website/docs: Apple Business Manager Integration. (#13319)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/apple/index.md

---
title: Integrate with Apple Business Manager
sidebar_label: Apple Business Manager
support_level: authentik
tags: [integration, apple, ssf, backchannel]
authentik_version: "2025.2.0"
authentik_enterprise: true
authentik_preview: true
---

> ## What is Apple Business Manager?

Reviewer: Shouldn't the [format mentioned in the template](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/7e7fc75e7739c988dd64f92785baae54a975269e/website/integrations/template/service.md?plain=1#L7) be respected? So, putting this section in quote block and adding a link to the ABM website?

    authentik-->>Apple: Identity verified
    Apple-->>User: Device enrolled!

```

In short, Apple Business Manager recognizes the email domain
as a federated identity provider, eliminating the need for separate Apple ID credentials.

---

## Preparation

By the end of this integration, your users will be able to enroll their Apple devices using their authentik credentials.

You'll need to have authentik instance running and accessible on an HTTPS domain, and an Apple Business Manager user with the role of Administrator or People Manager.

:::warning{title="Caveats"}

Be aware that Apple Business Manager imposes the following restrictions on federated authentication:

- Federated authentication should use the user’s email address as their user name. Aliases aren’t supported.
- Existing users with an email address in the federated domain will automatically be converted to federated authentication, effectively _taking ownership_ of the account.
- User accounts with the role of Administrator, Site Manager, or People Manager can’t sign in using federated authentication; they can only manage the federation process.

:::

### Placeholders

The following placeholders are used:

> - `authentik.company`: The Fully Qualified Domain Name of the authentik installation.

Reviewer: In the template, we use FQDN. Is this something we want to change in all existing documentation as well?

Reviewer 2: For now let's leave it as FDQN,please, to match the other dos. Then we can decide if we want to do a separate massive PR to go across the whole docs set, and maybe say "FDQN (Fully Qualified Domain Name)...". I think most users will know what FDQN is, though. But yes, for now please let's use the acronym, like in the other docs.

## authentik Configuration

Before we can proceed with the Apple Business Manager configuration, we'll need to configure authentik to act as an identity provider for Apple. Start by logging into your authentik instance and navigating to the Admin interface.

### Scope Mapping

> From the Admin interface, navigate to **Customization** -> **Property Mappings**.

Reviewer: IIRC, tana prefers "In" rather than "From"

From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Providers** and press **Create**.

:::tip{title="Keep your text editor ready"}

authentik will automatically generate the _Client ID_ and _Client Secret_ values for the new provider.

We'll need these values when configuring Apple Business Manager.

:::

From the creation wizard, select **OAuth2/OpenID Provider** and continue with the following form values:

| Field                 | Value                                               |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Name                  | Apple Business Manager                              |
| Authorization Flow    | `default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent`   |
| Redirect URIs/Origins | `https://gsa-ws.apple.com/grandslam/GsService2/acs` |

Under **Advanced protocol settings**, make sure to add the newly created scope mappings to the provider, as well as the following additional scopes:

1. `ssf.manage`
2. `ssf.read`
3. `profile`
4. `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'email'`
5. `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'openid'`
6. `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'offline_access'`

> Visually confirm that you've copied the _Client ID_ and _Client Secret_ before pressing **Finish**. You'll need these values when configuring Apple Business Manager. Save the provider and confirm that the new provider is listed in the provider overview.

Reviewer: Since Client ID and Client Secret are values in the UI, they should be put in bold as per the [styling section lf the dev docs](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/developer-docs/docs/style-guide#fonts-and-font-styling)

:::tip{title="OpenID Configuration URL"}

> Before leaving the provider overview page, make sure to copy the _OpenID Configuration URL_ value to your text editor. We'll need this when configuring Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer: Shouldn't a sentence or two be added to tell the user how to reach the provider overview page?

#### Lock your domain

Upon successful domain verification, you'll be asked to confirm that you wish to lock your domain. Locking your domain ensures that only your organization can use your domain for federated authentication.

:::info{title="Consquences of locking a domain"}

Locking your domain affects all _enrolled_ users who login with an email address in the federated domain. The only way to unlock a domain is to remove it from Apple Business Manager, which until re-locking, will prevent them from accessing Apple services.

:::

#### Capture all accounts

While optional, you may choose to [capture all accounts](https://support.apple.com/guide/apple-business-manager/capture-a-domain-axm512ce43c3/1/web/1), which will convert all existing accounts with an email address in the federated domain to _Managed Apple Accounts_.

:::danger{title="Account capture is one-way migration"}

Choosing to capture all accounts is an irreversible action which affects all users with an email address in the federated domain, regardless of their enrollment status.

> **Once captured, the accounts can't be reverted to personal Apple IDs.**

Reviewer: You mention on the previous line that the action is irreversible. You could maybe merge this and the previous line just to keep things concise?

:::

### Federated Authentication

Now that our authentication domain is verified, we're ready to configure federated authentication.

Once more from from the Apple Business Manager dashboard, press your name on the sidebar, then select **Preferences**. From the preferences page, select **Managed Apple Accounts** tab, and press **Get Started** under the "User sign in and directory sync" section.

We're now asked how we'd prefer our users sign in. Choose **Custom Identity Provider** and press **Continue**. From the "Set up your Custom Identity Provider" page, we'll need to provide Apple with some information we gathered from authentik:

| Field             | Value                   |
| ----------------- | ----------------------- |
| Name              | authentik               |
| Client ID         | `[Your Client ID]`      |
| Client Secret     | `[Your Client Secret]`  |
| SSF Config URL    | `[Your SSF Config URL]` |

> | OpenID Config URL | `[Your OpenID Config]`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OpenID Config URL | `[Your OpenID Config URL]`  |
```

---
title: Integrate with Apple Business Manager
sidebar_label: Apple Business Manager
support_level: authentik
tags: [integration, apple, ssf, backchannel]
authentik_version: "2025.2.0"
authentik_enterprise: true
authentik_preview: true
---

## What is Apple Business Manager?

> > Apple Business Manager is a web-based portal for IT administrators, managers, and procurement professionals to manage devices, and automate device enrollment.

Reviewer 2: Can we explain the relationship between ABM, ASM, and ABE? Is this Integration guide for all three? Or does one only integrate ABM, and then the others don't need any configuration, but work off the ABM config?

```

In short, Apple Business Manager recognizes the email domain
as a federated identity provider, eliminating the need for separate Apple ID credentials.

---

## Preparation

By the end of this integration, your users will be able to enroll their Apple devices using their authentik credentials.

You'll need to have authentik instance running and accessible on an HTTPS domain, and an Apple Business Manager user with the role of Administrator or People Manager.

:::warning{title="Caveats"}

Be aware that Apple Business Manager imposes the following restrictions on federated authentication:

- Federated authentication should use the user’s email address as their user name. Aliases aren’t supported.
- Existing users with an email address in the federated domain will automatically be converted to federated authentication, effectively _taking ownership_ of the account.
- User accounts with the role of Administrator, Site Manager, or People Manager can’t sign in using federated authentication; they can only manage the federation process.

:::

### Placeholders

The following placeholders are used:

- `authentik.company`: The Fully Qualified Domain Name of the authentik installation.

> ## authentik Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## authentik configuration
```

> Before you can proceed with the Apple Business Manager configuration, you'll need to configure authentik to act as an identity provider for Apple. Start by logging into your authentik instance and navigating to the Admin interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you proceed with the Apple Business Manager configuration, you will need to configure authentik to act as an identity provider for Apple. Start by logging into your authentik instance and navigating to the Admin interface.
```

> ### Scope Mapping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Scope mapping
```

> In the Admin interface, navigate to **Customization** -> **Property Mappings**.

Reviewer 2: Let's number the steps in each section...

> Press **Create** and when prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping**.

Reviewer 2: We use "Click" in all other docs. Sorry, but let's be consistent for now and we can decide whether we want to change across the docs set later.

> #### Apple Business Manager Profile

Reviewer 2: Is this a user's profile? Or an account (like an org, or sevice account) profile/ If a user account, let's say "Apple Business Manager user profile".  (Remember our Style Guide calls for sentence-style capitalization for titles.)

Create a new scope mapping to handle the user's profile information:

> | Field      | Value                          |

Reviewer 2: Again for consistency reasons, I'd rather not use a table for only two values. Yet another topic we can discuss separately, for longer lists of values.

| ---------- | ------------------------------ |
| Name       | Apple Business Manager profile |
| Scope name | `profile`                      |

> Use the following expression to map the user's profile information:

Reviewer 2: Where do they enter this expression? Is it a field labeled "Expression"? If so, let's state that... we want our procedural docs, our steps, to be written about the UI, referencing the UI itself as much as possible, to help them follow the steps more easily. So if this is a field, then say something like "3. To map the user's profile informatin between x and y, add the following code to the **Expression** field."

```py title="Expression"
first_name, _, last_name = request.user.name.partition(" ")

return {
  "name": request.user.name,
  "given_name": first_name,
  "family_name": last_name,
  "preferred_username": request.user.username,
  "nickname": request.user.username,
  "groups": [group.name for group in request.user.ak_groups.all()],
}
```

Save the scope mapping and press "Create" to continue to the next scope mapping.

> #### Read Scope

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Read the scope mapping
```

> Next, create a new scope mapping to handle read access to the user's profile information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Next, create a new scope mapping to handle read access to the user's profile information:
```

| Field      | Value                           |
| ---------- | ------------------------------- |
| Name       | Apple Business Manager ssf.read |
| Scope name | ssf.read                        |
| Expression | `return {}`                     |

Once again, save the scope mapping and press "Create" to continue to create the final scope mapping.

> #### Manage Scope

Reviewer 2: Can we make this title more descriptive? Also, titles use sentence-style capitalization. ;-)

| Field      | Value                             |
| ---------- | --------------------------------- |
| Name       | Apple Business Manager ssf.manage |
| Scope name | ssf.manage                        |
| Expression | `return {}`                       |

Finally, save the scope mapping and visually confirm the creation of all three scope mappings.

> ### OAuth2/OpenID Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### OAuth2/OpenID provider
```

From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Providers** and press **Create**.

:::tip{title="Keep your text editor ready"}

> authentik will automatically generate the _Client ID_ and _Client Secret_ values for the new provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authentik will automatically generate the `Client ID`  and `Client Secret` values for the new provider.
```

Reviewer 2: We want values to be in code font, not italics. Italics are reserved for variables. ;-)

Reviewer 2: Also need to have numbered steps, please

You'll need these values when configuring Apple Business Manager.

:::

From the creation wizard, select **OAuth2/OpenID Provider** and continue with the following form values:

| Field                 | Value                                               |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Name                  | Apple Business Manager                              |
| Authorization Flow    | `default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent`   |
| Redirect URIs/Origins | `https://gsa-ws.apple.com/grandslam/GsService2/acs` |

Under **Advanced protocol settings**, make sure to add the newly created scope mappings to the provider, as well as the following additional scopes:

1. `ssf.manage`
2. `ssf.read`
3. `profile`
4. `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'email'`
5. `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'openid'`
6. `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'offline_access'`

> Visually confirm that you've copied the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** before pressing **Finish**. You'll need these values when configuring Apple Business Manager. Save the provider and confirm that the new provider is listed in the provider overview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Visually confirm that you've copied the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` values before clicking **Finish**. You'll need these values when configuring Apple Business Manager. Save the provider and confirm that the new provider is listed in the provider overview.
```

:::tip{title="OpenID Configuration URL"}

> Before leaving the provider overview page, make sure to copy the **OpenID Configuration URL** value to your text editor. You'll need this when configuring Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before leaving the provider overview page, make sure to copy the `OpenID Configuration URL` value to your text editor. You'll need this when configuring Apple Business Manager.
```

Reviewer 2: This one could go either way... if you were referring to the field label itself, the UI component, then bold it. BUt since you are talking about the alue related to that field, it's a value, so code font it is.

> You can always find your provider's generated URLs by navigating to **Providers**, then selecting the provider by name. The URLs are listed under the **Overview** tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can always find your provider's generated URLs by navigating to **Providers** and then selecting the provider by name. The URLs are listed under the **Overview** tab.
```

:::

> ### Shared Signals Framework Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Shared Signals Framework provider
```

> While the OAuth2/OpenID Provider handles the authentication flow, you'll need to create a Shared Signals Framework Provider to handle the backchannel communication between authentik and Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the OAuth2/OpenID provider handles the authentication flow, you'll need to create a Shared Signals Framework provider to handle the backchannel communication between authentik and Apple Business Manager.
```

> Once more from the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Providers** and press **Create**. This time, select **Shared Signals Framework Provider** and continue with the following form values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Providers** and click **Create**. This time, select **Shared Signals Framework Provider** and continue with the following form values:
```

| Field | Value                      |
| ----- | -------------------------- |
| Name  | apple-business-manager-ssf |

> Press **Finish** to create the Shared Signals Framework Provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Finish** to create the Shared Signals Framework Provider.
```

Reviewer 2: There are more values than just the **Name** to define, when creating an SSF provider, right? I think it would be best to simply link to the docs on how to create an SSF provider, instead of duplicating those steps here. Thoughts?

> ### Application Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Application configuration
```

> You're now ready to create the application configuration for Apple Business Manager. From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Applications** and press **Create**.

Reviewer 2: Typically in our integration guides, we have two mai sections: authentik configuration, and application configuration.

To keep that (simple understandable) structure, let's move this content under the H2, under **## Apple Business Manager Configuration** section.

| Field                | Value                        |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| Name                 | Apple Business Manager       |
| Slug                 | `abm`                        |
| Provider             | Apple Business Manager       |
| Backchannel Provider | `apple-business-manager-ssf` |

> With the application created, you're almost ready to switch over to Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the application created, you're almost ready to switch over to configuring Apple Business Manager.
```

:::tip{title="SSF Config URL"}

> Assigning an SSF provider to a application will generate _SSF Config URL_ value. You'll need this when configuring Apple Business Manager, so make sure navigate to **Providers** -> **Apple Business Manager SSF** and copy the _SSF Config URL_ value to your text editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assigning an SSF provider to a application will generate `SSF Config URL` value. You'll need this when configuring Apple Business Manager, so make sure navigate to **Providers** -> **Apple Business Manager SSF** and copy the `SSF Config URL` value to your text editor.
```

:::

---

> ## Apple Business Manager Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Apple Business Manager configuration
```

Let's recap what you've done to configured authentik to act as an identity provider for Apple Business Manager.

1. You've created three new scope mappings to handle the user's profile information, read access, and management access.
2. Created a OAuth2/OpenID Provider to handle the authentication flow.
    - Added the new scope mappings to the provider.
    - And noted the _Client ID_, _Client Secret_, and _OpenID Configuration URL_.
3. Created a Shared Signals Framework Provider to handle the backchannel communication between authentik and Apple Business Manager.
    - Noted the _SSF Config URL_.

> 4. Created application configuration for Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer 2: This is of course accurate, but how can we word it to say that we "created a new application in authentik for ABM". This is the way our docs and UI present this... it's not so much "configuring an application" but rather creating, and then configuring an application.

> With these prerequisites in place, authentik is primed to act as an identity provider for Managed Apple Accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With these prerequisites in place, authentik is ready to act as an identity provider for Managed Apple Accounts.
```

:::info{title="Managed Apple Accounts"}

> Similar to a user's personal Apple account, a _Managed Apple Account_ is created and managed by an organization, and can be used to access Apple services and devices. Both use an email address as the user name, but a _Managed Apple Account_ is owned by the organization, not the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to a user's personal Apple account, a _Managed Apple Account_ is created and managed by an organization, and can be used to access Apple services and devices. Both use an email address as the user name, but a _Managed Apple Account_ is owned by the organization, not the user.
```

:::

Let's continue our federated authentication setup by signing into the [Apple Business Manager Dashboard](https://business.apple.com/).

### Add and verify your domain

Starting from the Apple Business Manager dashboard, press **your account name** on the sidebar, then select **Preferences**. From the preferences page, select **Managed Apple Accounts** tab, and press **Add Domain**.

After providing your domain name, continue by pressing **Verify**. Apple will generate a DNS TXT record that you'll need to add to your domain's DNS settings. Once you've added the TXT record (and waited for DNS propagation), press **Verify** to complete the process.

#### Lock your domain

> Upon successful domain verification, you'll be asked to confirm that you wish to lock your domain. Locking your domain ensures that only your organization can use your domain for federated authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upon successful domain verification, you are asked to confirm that you wish to lock your domain. Locking your domain ensures that only your organization can use your domain for federated authentication.
```

Reviewer 2: In procedural docs, we try to use present tense, because the action is actually happening at that moment.

:::info{title="Consequences of locking a domain"}

> Locking your domain affects all _enrolled_ users who login with an email address in the federated domain. The only way to unlock a domain is to remove it from Apple Business Manager, which until re-locking, will prevent them from accessing Apple services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Locking your domain affects all _enrolled_ users who log in with an email address in the federated domain. The only way to unlock a domain is to remove it from Apple Business Manager, which until re-locking, will prevent them from accessing Apple services.
```

:::

#### Capture all accounts

While optional, you may choose to [capture all accounts](https://support.apple.com/guide/apple-business-manager/capture-a-domain-axm512ce43c3/1/web/1), which will convert all existing accounts with an email address in the federated domain to _Managed Apple Accounts_.

:::danger{title="Account capture is one-way migration"}

Choosing to capture all accounts will affect all users with an email address in the federated domain, regardless of their enrollment status.

**Once captured, the accounts can't be reverted to personal Apple IDs.**

:::

> ### Federated Authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Federated authentication
```

Now that our authentication domain is verified, you're ready to configure federated authentication.

> Once more from from the Apple Business Manager dashboard, press your name on the sidebar, then select **Preferences**. From the preferences page, select **Managed Apple Accounts** tab, and press **Get Started** under the "User sign in and directory sync" section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From from the Apple Business Manager dashboard, press your name on the sidebar, then select **Preferences**. From the preferences page, select **Managed Apple Accounts** tab, and press **Get Started** under the "User sign in and directory sync" section.
```

You'll be asked how you'd prefer our users sign in. Choose **Custom Identity Provider** and press **Continue**. From the "Set up your Custom Identity Provider" page, you'll need to provide Apple with some information gathered from authentik:

| Field             | Value                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- |
| Name              | authentik                  |
| Client ID         | `[Your Client ID]`         |
| Client Secret     | `[Your Client Secret]`     |
| SSF Config URL    | `[Your SSF Config URL]`    |
| OpenID Config URL | `[Your OpenID Config URL]` |

> Press **Continue** to complete the setup. Apple will now verify the configuration and prompt you to test the authentication flow. During this test, Apple will redirect you to authentik to authenticate, and then back to Apple to complete the process. When the test is successful, press **Done** to complete the setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Press **Continue** to complete the setup. Apple will now verify the configuration and prompt you to test the authentication flow. During this test, Apple redirects you to authentik to authenticate, and then back to Apple to complete the process. When the test is successful, press **Done** to complete the setup.
```

:::tip{title="Troubleshooting"}

> If the test fails, double-check the values you've entered and make sure that the authentik instance is accessible from the internet. Check the authentik logs for any errors that might have occurred during the authentication process. Scope mappings are a common source of issues, so double-check that you've created the necessary mappings, and that they're all assigned to the provider.

Reviewer 2: Very nice and kind (and well-written) tip.

---
title: Integrate with Apple Business Manager
sidebar_label: Apple Business Manager
support_level: authentik
tags: [integration, apple, ssf, backchannel]
authentik_version: "2025.2.0"
authentik_enterprise: true
authentik_preview: true
---

## What is Apple Business Manager?

> Apple Business Manager is a web-based portal for IT administrators, managers, and procurement professionals to manage devices, and automate device enrollment.
>

> > Organizations using Apple Business Essentials can allow their users to authenticate into their Apple devices >using their IdP credentials, typically their company email addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Organizations using Apple Business Essentials can allow their users to authenticate into their Apple devices using their IdP credentials, typically their company email addresses.
```

You'll need to have authentik instance running and accessible on an HTTPS domain, and an Apple Business Manager user with the role of Administrator or People Manager.

:::warning Caveats

Be aware that Apple Business Manager imposes the following restrictions on federated authentication:

- Federated authentication should use the user’s email address as their username. Aliases aren’t supported.
- Existing users with an email address in the federated domain will automatically be converted to federated authentication, effectively _taking ownership_ of the account.
- User accounts with the role of Administrator, Site Manager, or People Manager can’t sign in using federated authentication; they can only manage the federation process.

:::

### Placeholders

The following placeholders are used:

- `authentik.company`: The FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik configuration

Before proceeding with the Apple Business Manager configuration, you will to need to configure authentik to act as an identity provider for Apple. Start by logging into your authentik instance and navigating to the Admin interface.

> ### 1. Scope mapping

Reviewer 2: When I mentioned numbered steps, I meant the actual steps below each main section. So starting with line 84., it wold be "1. In the Admin interface, navigate to...."

> ### 1. Scope mapping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Scope mapping
```

> In the Admin interface, navigate to **Customization** -> **Property Mappings**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Admin interface, navigate to **Customization** -> **Property Mappings**.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In the Admin interface, navigate to **Customization** -> **Property Mappings**.
```

> Click **Create** and when prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **Create** and when prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping**.
```

first_name, _, last_name = request.user.name.partition(" ")

return {
  "given_name": first_name,
  "family_name": last_name,
}
```

Save the scope mapping and click **Create** to continue to the next scope mapping.

#### Provide read access for the scope mapping

Create a new scope mapping to handle read access to the user's profile information:

| Field      | Value                           |
| ---------- | ------------------------------- |
| Name       | Apple Business Manager ssf.read |
| Scope name | ssf.read                        |
| Expression | `return {}`                     |

Save the scope mapping and click **Create** to continue to create the final scope mapping.

#### Provide management access for the scope mapping

Create a new scope mapping to handle management access to the user's profile information:

| Field      | Value                             |
| ---------- | --------------------------------- |
| Name       | Apple Business Manager ssf.manage |
| Scope name | ssf.manage                        |
| Expression | `return {}`                       |

Save the scope mapping and click **Create** to confirm the creation of all three scope mappings.

> ### 2. Signing keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Create signing keys
```

Reviewer 2: Best practice in tech writing: one wants a title to tell you what the section is about... we use "hintful" titles, such as "About signing keys" or "Create signing keys" to help the reader know what to expect in that secton.. is it conceptual (in which case many readers will skip over it haha), or is it procedural, and will tell them How To do something (which is probably what they are looking for).

---
title: Integrate with Apple Business Manager
sidebar_label: Apple Business Manager
support_level: authentik
tags: [integration, apple, ssf, backchannel]
authentik_version: "2025.2.0"
authentik_enterprise: true
authentik_preview: true
---

## What is Apple Business Manager?

> Apple Business Manager is a web-based portal for IT administrators, managers, and procurement professionals to manage devices, and automate device enrollment.
>
> Organizations using Apple Business Essentials can allow their users to authenticate into their Apple devices using their IdP credentials, typically their company email addresses.
>
> -- [Apple Business Manager](https://www.apple.com/business/)

:::info Apple Device Management Platforms

> Apple repackages their device management platform into three brands to cater to different audiences:

Reviewer: I'm not sure that " repackages" is the right word. Maybe "packages" or "divides"?

Reviewer 2: I'd go with "packages", but "repackages" works fine.

- Apple Business Manager: Large organizations
- Apple Business Essentials: Small businesses
- Apple School Manager: Educational institutions

While this integration guide focuses on Business Manager, the instructions are applicable to all three platforms with minor changes to the terminology.

:::

## Authentication Flow

> This sequence diagram shows a high-level flow between the user's MacBook, authentik, and Apple.

Reviewer: Does this have to be a MacBook? Are other devices supported? If so, we could generalize to "Apple device"

Reviewer 3: In theory it should be any apple device but I have not personally tested this on other devices yet

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    participant User
    participant authentik
    participant Apple

    User->>Apple: User sign-in via iCloud
    Note over Apple: 🔍 Email domain is federated
    Apple-->>authentik: Redirect to authentik
    Note over authentik: ✅ Authenticate
    authentik-->>Apple: Identity verified
    Apple-->>User: Device enrolled!

```

In short, Apple Business Manager recognizes the email domain

> as a federated identity provider controlled by authentik. When a user signs in with their email address, Apple redirects them to authentik for authentication. Once authenticated, Apple enrolls the user's device and grants access to Apple services.

Reviewer: Is this newline intentional?

> ---

Reviewer 2: We don't use HRs anywhere else in the docs, so let's remove this one and then have a chat about where we would want to use them, consistently across all docs.

## Preparation

By the end of this integration, your users will be able to enroll their Apple devices using their authentik credentials.

You'll need to have authentik instance running and accessible on an HTTPS domain, and an Apple Business Manager user with the role of Administrator or People Manager.

:::warning Caveats

Be aware that Apple Business Manager imposes the following restrictions on federated authentication:

- Federated authentication should use the user’s email address as their username. Aliases aren’t supported.
- Existing users with an email address in the federated domain will automatically be converted to federated authentication, effectively _taking ownership_ of the account.
- User accounts with the role of Administrator, Site Manager, or People Manager can’t sign in using federated authentication; they can only manage the federation process.

:::

### Placeholders

> The following placeholders are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following placeholders are used in this guide:
```
As per the template

- `authentik.company`: The FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik configuration

> The workflow to configure authentik as an identity provider for Apple Business Manager involves creating scope mappings, signing keys, a Shared Signals Framework provider, and an OIDC provider. Together, these components will handle the authentication flow and backchannel communication between authentik and Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The workflow to configure authentik as an identity provider for Apple Business Manager involves creating scope mappings, signing keys, a Shared Signals Framework provider, and an OIDC provider/ application pair. Together, these components will handle the authentication flow and backchannel communication between authentik and Apple Business Manager.
```

> ### 1. Create scope mappings

Reviewer: Usually, we don't number our headers

> ### 1. Create scope mappings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create scope mappings
```

> #### 1.1. Mapping the user's profile information

Reviewer 2: I know I asked that the individual steps are numbered, but... we don't use this MS style of numbering in any other docs... for now let's number only the actual steps, and not the top-level sections (the super-steps).

> #### 1.1. Mapping the user's profile information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first step is to map the user's profile information.
```

Reviewer 2: Ah, I think after staring at this for a wile (and it is very complex steps and sub-steps), I think the best way to avoid MS style numbering is to use a simple sentence explainingg the substeps. Let's see how this looks.

> From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Customization** -> **Property Mappings** and click **Create**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Customization** -> **Property Mappings** and click **Create**.
```

> When prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping** and continue with the following form values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

When prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping** and continue with the following form values:
```

| Field      | Value                            |
| ---------- | -------------------------------- |
| Name       | `Apple Business Manager profile` |
| Scope Name | `profile`                        |

> This scope mapping will also require an expression to map Apple Business Manager's name field into into separate given and family names. This expression assumes that the name is formatted with the given name first, followed by the family name, delimited by a space. Consider adjusting the expression to match the name format used in your organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Add an expression to map Apple Business Manager's name field into into separate given and family names. This expression assumes that the name is formatted with the given name first, followed by the family name, delimited by a space. Consider adjusting the expression to match the name format used in your organization.
```

```py title="Expression field: Extracting given and family names."
given_name, _, family_name = request.user.name.partition(" ")

return {
  "given_name": given_name,
  "family_name": family_name,
}
```

> Click **Finish** and confirm that new scope mapping is listed in the **Property Mappings** overview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **Finish** and confirm that new scope mapping is listed in the **Property Mappings** overview.
```

> #### 1.2. Provide read access for the scope mapping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, you need to provide read access for the scope mapping
```

> From the **Property Mappings** overview, click **Create**.

Reviewer: We should include the  full steps or path to access this page

Reviewer 2: true... we shouldn't assume they know how to get to the Property Mappings overview.

> From the **Property Mappings** overview, click **Create**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Admin interface, navigate to **Customization -> Property Mappings**, and then click **Create**.
```

> When prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping** and continue with the following form values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. When prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping** and continue with the following form values:
```

| Field      | Value                             |
| ---------- | --------------------------------- |
| Name       | `Apple Business Manager ssf.read` |
| Scope Name | `ssf.read`                        |
| Expression | `return {}`                       |

> Click **Finish** and confirm that new scope mapping is listed in the **Property Mappings** overview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **Finish** and confirm that new scope mapping is listed in the **Property Mappings** overview.
```

> #### 1.3. Provide management access for the scope mapping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Finally, you need to provide management access for the scope mapping.
```

> From the **Property Mappings** overview, click **Create**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Admin interface, navigate to **Customization -> Property Mappings**, and then click **Create**.
```

> When prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping** and continue with the following form values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. When prompted for a choice of mapping, select **Scope Mapping** and continue with the following form values:
```

| Field      | Value                               |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Name       | `Apple Business Manager ssf.manage` |
| Scope Name | `ssf.manage`                        |
| Expression | `return {}`                         |

> Click **Finish** and confirm that all three new scope mappings are listed in the overview.

Reviewer: After each scope configuration, you tell the user to verify its existence. This line feels redundant. Perhaps only keeping this one and removing the two others?

> ### 2. Create signing keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create signing keys
```

> You will need to create **Signing Key** to sign Security Event Tokens (SET). This key is used to both sign and verify the SETs that are sent between authentik and Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need to create a **Signing Key** to sign Security Event Tokens (SET). This key is used to both sign and verify the SETs that are sent between authentik and Apple Business Manager.
```

> From the Admin interface, navigate to **System** -> **Certificates** and clicking **Generate** or **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the Admin interface, navigate to **System** -> **Certificates** and click **Generate** or **Create**.
```

> From the Admin interface, navigate to **System** -> **Certificates** and clicking **Generate** or **Create**.

Reviewer: Should we only recommend generate? We con assure the key meets safe standards

When choosing a **Common Name**, consider using a name that reflects the purpose of the key, such as `apple-business-manager`.

> ### 3. Create OIDC provider

Reviewer 2: So everything in this section should be a series of steps, that reflects as closely as possible the exact steps that the user will take in the UI, as they create a provider. We don't need substeps... just the steps on each panel of the create modal.

:::tip Keep your text editor ready

authentik will automatically generate the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values for the new provider. You'll need these values when configuring Apple Business Manager.

You can always find your provider's generated values by navigating to **Providers**, selecting the provider by name, and clicking the **Edit** button.

:::

> From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Providers** and click **Create**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Providers** and click **Create**.
```

> In the creation wizard, select **OAuth2/OpenID Provider**. While you can use any name for the provider, we recommend using `Apple Business Manager` for clarity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. For the **Name** of the provider you can use any name; we recommend using `Apple Business Manager` for clarity.

3. For the **Provider Type** select **OAuth2/OpenID Provider**, and then click **Next**.

3. Provide the configuration settings. Be sure to select a Signing Key.

4. Click **Finish** to create and save the provider.
```

Reviewer 2: Do hey need to select a Signing Key here, @GirlBossRush ? Please remove if no...

> #### 3.1. Use Apple's Redirect URL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Use Apple's Redirect URL
```

> Under **Protocol settings**, click **Add entry** in the **Redirect URIs/Origins** field and fill in the following value:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under **Protocol settings**, click **Add entry** in the **Redirect URIs/Origins** field and fill in the following value:
```

> Under **Protocol settings**, click **Add entry** in the **Redirect URIs/Origins** field and fill in the following value:

Reviewer 2: Oh, wait, isn't this step still part of the "Create an OIDC Provider" section??  If so, let's not a create a new header... makes it look like an entirely separate step.

```txt
https://gsa-ws.apple.com/grandslam/GsService2/acs
```

> #### 3.2. Use the newly created signing key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Under **Protocol settings** in the **Signing Key** field, choose the certificate you've created earlier. This key will be used to sign the OpenID Connect tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

:::tip Client ID and Client Secret

Copy the generated values from the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** fields to your text editor. These values will be used when configuring Apple Business Manager.

To view the generated values at a later time, navigate to **Providers** and select the provider by name, then click the **Edit** button.

:::

> #### 3.3. Assign scope mappings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Under the **Advanced protocol settings**, add the newly created scope mappings to the provider, as well as the default `profile` scope:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Advanced protocol settings**: add the newly created scope mappings to the provider, as well as the default `profile` scope:
```

> - [x] `Apple Business Manager ssf.manage`

Reviewer: Why add check marks here? Wouldn't bullet pointe suffice

- [x] `Apple Business Manager ssf.read`
- [x] `Apple Business Manager profile`
- [x] `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'profile'`

> 

Reviewer: If the wizard says everything is ok,l think we should assume it's fire and not tell the user to check. As you wish

> Click **Finish** and confirm that `Apple Business Manager` is listed in the provider overview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **Finish** and confirm that `Apple Business Manager` is listed in the provider overview.
```

:::tip OpenID Configuration URL

> From the provider overview page, copy the URL in the **OpenID Configuration URL** field to your text editor. You'll need this when configuring Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer: Please include steps to reach this page

You can always find your provider's generated URLs by navigating to **Providers** and selecting the provider by name. The URLs are listed under the **Overview** tab.

:::

### 4. Create Shared Signals Framework provider

> While the OIDC provider handles the authentication flow, you'll need to create a [Shared Signals Framework provider](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/ssf/) to handle the backchannel communication between authentik and Apple Business Manager.

Reviewer: Please use relative links

Click **Finish** and confirm that the new SSF provider is listed in the overview.

:::tip A Blank SSF Config URL is expected

Keep in mind the **SSF Config URL** will be blank until the SSF provider is assigned to an application as a backchannel provider. We'll return to collect this URL after creating the application.

:::

### 5. Create application

From the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Applications** and click **Create**. Continue with the following form values:

| Field                | Value                      |
| -------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Name                 | Apple Business Manager     |
| Slug                 | `abm`                      |
| Provider             | Apple Business Manager     |
| Backchannel Provider | Apple Business Manager SSF |

Click **Create** and confirm that the application is listed in the overview page.

:::tip Your SSF Config URL is now available

Assigning an SSF provider to a application will generate **SSF Config URL**.

Navigate to **Providers** -> **Apple Business Manager SSF** and copy the `SSF Config URL` value to your text editor.

:::

---

> ## Configuration checklist

Reviewer 2: I do see the usefulness of  checklist but don't think it is needed here. We want the docs to be lean, and these steps repeat the steps above. And... there is still a LOT of content still to go. :-)

Let's recap the steps you've taken to configure authentik as an identity provider for Apple Business Manager:

1. Created scope mappings:
    - [x] User's profile information
    - [x] read access
    - [x] Management access.
2. Created a OIDC provider to handle the authentication flow.
    - [x] Added the scope mappings to the provider, **as well as the default `profile` scope.**

>     - [x] Specified the `Redirect URIs/Origins` and `Signing Key`.

Reviewer: Ul fields should be bold as per the style guide

    - [x] Noted the `Client ID`, `Client Secret`, and `OpenID Configuration URL` in your text editor.
3. Created a Shared Signals Framework provider to handle the backchannel communication between authentik and Apple Business Manager.
    - [x] Specified the `Signing Key` and `Event Retention`.
4. Created an application and assigned the SSF provider as a backchannel provider.
    - [x] Noted the `SSF Config URL` in your text editor.

:::tip Port numbers required

By default, authentik will generate the **SSF Config URL** and **OpenID Configuration URL** without the default HTTPS port (443). However, Apple requires the port number to be included when providing the URLs in the configuration.

> From your text editor, update the URLs to include the port number `443`:

Reviewer 2: ?? Is there a command that they need to run in their...  by text editor do you mean their VSCode or whatever IDE they use?

#### 1. Add port to SSF Config URL

```diff
-https://authentik.company/.well-known/ssf-configuration/abm
+https://authentik.company:443/.well-known/ssf-configuration/abm
```

> #### 2. Add port to OpenID Config URL

Reviewer: Could ne merge both these steps in one?

```diff
-https://authentik.company/application/o/abm/.well-known/openid-configuration
+https://authentik.company:443/application/o/abm/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

> **This is a common source of configuration issues!**

Reviewer: I don't think this line is needed

Reviewer 2: Ah, I kinda like the "heads up" of it. Let;s leave it.

:::

---

## Apple Business Manager configuration

With these prerequisites in place, authentik is ready to act as an identity provider for Managed Apple Accounts.

:::info Managed Apple Accounts

Similar to a personal Apple account, a _Managed Apple Account_ uses an email address to access Apple services and devices. What makes an Apple account _managed_ is that the domain associated with the email address is owned and verified by an organization through an Apple Business Manager account.

By verifying the domain, Apple Business Manager will delegate ownership of any accounts with a matching email address to the organization, allowing for centralized management of devices, apps, and services.

:::

### 1. Add and verify your domain

> From the [Apple Business Manager dashboard](https://business.apple.com/), click **your account name** on the sidebar, then select **Preferences**. From the preferences page, select **Managed Apple Accounts** tab, and click **Add Domain**.

Reviewer 2: Ideally, these are the steps that need to be numbered, so that readers staring at the ABM UI can walk through the steps easily, and recognize the exact fields in the UI. And, ideally, the steps (which follow the UI) are not broken up with the H4s like the 1.1 or 1.2 below.

Let's try to make this match the "authentik configuration" section (as far as numbering and following the UI) as much as possible, but... it doesn't have to be perfect. Let's just et this massive Guide merged. ;-)
